# Plant leaf disease detection model
# Introduction
The primary occupation in India is agriculture. India ranks second in the agricultural output worldwide. Here in India, farmers cultivate a great diversity of crops. Various factors such as climatic conditions, soil conditions, various disease, etc., affect the production of the crops. The existing method for plants disease detection is simply naked eye observation which requires more man labour, properly equipped laboratories, expensive devices, etc. And improper disease detection may led to inexperienced pesticide usage that can cause development of long term resistance of the pathogens, reducing the ability of the crop to fight back. The plant disease detection can be done by observing the spot on the leaves of the affected plant. The method we are adopting to detect plant diseases is image processing using Convolution neural network (CNN). The first implementation of the plant disease detection using image processing was done by Shen WeizhegWuyachun Chen Zhanliang and Wi Hangda in their paper.
CNN combines well-read features with input data, and then it uses 2D convolutional layers, and hence makes this architecture more suitable for processing 2D data, like images. CNNs abolish the demand for manual feature removal and extraction for the classification of the images. The CNN model of its own extracts features straight from images. The features that are extracted aren’t pre-trained; they are well-read while the network is trained on few groups of images. The Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model has numerous of layers which execute the processing of image in convolutional layers include- Input layer, Output Layer, Convo Layer, , Fully, Soft-max layer, Connected layer, Pooling Layer.
# Objective
The objective of this project is timely identification and early prevention of crop diseases which are essential for improving the crop production.  In  this  paper, deep convolutional-neural-network (CNN) models are implemented  to  identify and diagnose diseases in plants from their leaves, since CNNs have achieved impressive results in the field of machine vision. An automated system designed to help identify plant diseases by the plant’s appearance and visual  symptoms could be of great help to amateurs in the gardening process and also trained professionals as a verification  system  in  disease  diagnostics.  In  machine learning, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN/ConvNet) is a Deep Learning algorithm which can take in an  input  image,  assign  importance  (learnable weights   and   biases)   to   various   aspects/objects   in   the   image   and   be   able   to differentiate one from the other. The pre-processing required in  a  ConvNet  is much lower as compared to other classification algorithms. While in primitive methods filters are hand-engineered, with enough training, ConvNets have the ability    to    learn    these    filters/characteristics.    The    accuracy    results    in    the identification of diseases showed that the deep CNN model is promising and can greatly impact the efficient identification of the
diseases, and may have potential in the detection of diseases in real-time agricultural systems.
Using the deep convolutional neural network architecture, we have  trained  a model on images of plant leaves with the goal of classifying both crop species and the presence and identity of disease on images that the model had not seen before. Within the Plant data set of 87,867 images containing 38 classes of 14 crop species and 26 diseases.
